This was originally written for a coursework, thus oversimplified and not very detailed, intended at readers with little to no knowledge about philosophy.

---
### 2025/3/12

>Music is not the sum of all the physical properties of the sound waves, it has nothing ultimately to do with the mathematical proportions upon which pitch temperament systems and theories of consonance and dissonance have been expounded, all of which are entirely culturally and historically specific aesthetic questions rather than phenomenological ones. Neither are the particular instruments or timbres involved relevant to the essence of music... All this is immaterial to the experience of the listener. He responds neither to sound waves, nor does he perceive sounds; he just listens to Music. 
>
>-- Alfred Schütz

## Against Naive Views
&nbsp;&nbsp;Rhythm is indeed something universal that all human experiences. People from different backgrounds can all feel rhythm and get connected to each other by it. However, it may be difficult to conduct a formal speculation on how rhythm is universal. I find the argument relying on natural science unsatisfactory (in the same way as to the arguments that rely on some metaphysical spiritual beliefs), as it fails to explain how rhythm *comes to **be*** without relying on something else, namely the methods of quantization/measurement from physical science, where music then becomes a subset of natural science. By reducing rhythm and music to physical frequencies, even to the vibrations of smallest physical elements like photons and electrons, it is not really universalizing rhythm; rather, it is killing rhythm. Rhythm can not be a subset of the physical frequency, because then it is no longer universal. Else, if frequency is a subset of rhythm, then this implies that there is something in rhythm beyond mere frequency. The only option left is: rhythm is *the* frequency. But then, what is the difference between them? If we agree that there is such a difference, it must be clarified, which is something pretty difficult to do in my opinion under this preassumption. One might blame this on the limitation of human senses, as we can only perceive a certain range of frequencies,  then why couldn’t we argue that those "music" fail to really be music themselves? When defining colors, we do not consider the wavelength beyond normal human perception to be color. Even if cameras and some other sensors can capture such "color", we will still need to somehow map or translate it into the visible spectrum in order to make sense of it (like infrared images). Even if we accept something outside the range as "color" or "music", they will still be something incomplete, failing to establish their own legitimacy. Redefining music/color in the sense of physical frequencies will only force us to come up with a new word to replace the old vocabulary of music/color. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;Another argument is the idea that rhythm = pitch, and that pitches are just sped up rhythm: a perfect fifth in just intonation has no difference to a 2:3 polyrhythm. If we speed up any rhythm, or polyrhythm, we will get to pitch/harmony. Here, we can again draw a parallel to color: different colors are just wavelength increased/decreased. You can linearly move from red to blue. But does that make red and blue the same? Similarly, I don’t think one will argue the notes A and B in the 12 equal temperament are the same. Even C flat and B are different. Another example is speed limits, where 60 and 61 mph or kph could make a big difference, although it is just the wheel turning a bit faster. 

## Towards Universality of Rhythm
&nbsp;&nbsp;This reliance on frequencies and physical rules is what Hegel refers to as "abstract universality", which is an "objective fact". However, how one moves to concrete universality is when we ask how such a system exists *for* the subject, or how does the subject *experiences* it as "objective". With this in mind, I will try establish the universality of rhythm. The most difficult part is the genesis of rhythm, but it is also the only thing that we need to establish in order to justify rhythm as a universal element. To avoid philosophical jargons, the answer is repetition. It is not the repetition of something, but *the* repetition. For example, I can clap, which creates a sound, and I can make that sound over and over again, therefore repeating. But rhythm does not arise from such sound. Iti s the repetition of sounds, or flash of lights, or the motion of something, that "generate" rhythm. But rhythm is not dependent on these things to emerge. Rhythm is from the repetition itself. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;One might argue that here, I am presupposing some temporal structure that runs in the background, providing a platform for repetition to happen so that we can use this temporality as a ruler to differentiate the events (therefore be able to tell the distance between the repetitions), and gain rhythm from such difference. However, the human subject *is* "temporal, not through some accident of the human constitution, but in virtue of an inner necessity…there are no events without someone to whom they happen and whose finite perspective grounds their individuality. Time presupposes a view upon time. Thus, time is not like a stream; time is not a fluid substance…it is born of my relation with things." (Merleu-Ponty) Note that this time is completely different and has nothing to do with the physical time, which presupposes some absolute or relative timeline. Here, there is not a pre-determined timeline; timeline does not exist until the repetition happens. Rather than relying on some presupposed time, like relying the universality of rhythms on physical frequencies, *rhythm posits its own time*.

&nbsp;&nbsp;Let’s say that there are two beats, which is enough to start rhythm, as there is repetition. Once the second beat happens, the difference between it and the first beat gives out the timeline as rhythm emerges. This timeline is not beyond the subject-object relationship, and has nothing to do with any other measurement/quantification. It is only quantized by the quality of repetition, which extends infinitely towards both the future and the past. How it extends to the future is obvious: the rhythm can repeat itself infinitely. But how it extends backward is equally important. Take *Sacrifice* by TesseracT for example: when the drum comes in, how we feel tempo changes, and how the background synth sound is interpreted also changes retroactively. Another example could be *Contortionist* by Their Dogs Were Astronauts, where the listener can be confused on perceiving the actual pulse after the drums comes in and before it reconciles with the guitars again. The listener is constantly dealing with the *current* object. "Past and future…exist in the present, and being itself lacks in order to be temporal is the non-being of the elsewhere, of the bygone, and of tomorrow." (Merleu-Ponty) In this sense, time doesn’t exist. What is there is only the subject-object relation and their movements. And the timeline, like how the listener feels the pulse and meters in sound, is only a symbolization and abstraction of such a relationship that is constantly being written as the object moves. Every new "current", or "now" is erasing and rewriting the previous. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;When we perceive motions, we can not help but perceive rhythm from not only sounds as results of motions, but also motion themselves. Rhythm is not an outcome of senses, but rather is itself a brutal intruder into the consciousness. How we understand rhythm reinforces this. Some might visualize the rhythmic swing feeling as a pendulum, where the shifted-back-note is associated with the pendulum swinging down (it’s the fastest at the lowest point). Similarly, some others visualize a circle that is also affected by gravitational force, and the swinging note is associated with an acceleration of speed of something that travels around the circle’s circumference. If we take out what those visualizations are supposed to imply, then the visualization themselves, or the motions still convey rhythm. How this rhythm emerges is from the subject’s interpretation, which goes back to the subject-object relation. Why would we see certain points in the circle as where the beat happens? When we see a ball bounce up and down, why would we naturally see the highest or lowest point of the bounce as the beat, but not an arbitrary point, or multiple points in the middle? 

&nbsp;&nbsp;It might seem like a perspective that is way too subjective, but it’s a two way relationship: there is no subject without any object. That is also why temporality is necessary, as the action of sensing (understanding) is already inscribed with movement, which brings out *difference and repetition*. A very physical example is when one listens to the metronome, although one could try to hear the beats as some syncopation or polyrhythm and feel another tempo, it is still in relation to the beat that the metronome is currently playing. It is difficult to avoid or ignore what the metronome is currently sounding; the object is coming to the subject as the subject is sensing towards the object. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;The subject should be seen as a mediator of the "raw, unprocessed" sounds/elements, which helps rhythm to *achieve itself as an objective Being*. For example, when hearing a bunch of footsteps going down the stairs, we could of course say that there is rhythm, but it is at the same time chaotic, unorganized, constantly refreshing its own tempo. But the subject will hear intrinsic relations within it, perhaps try to fill it in a meter-like structure where a greater repetition happens. Furthermore, a well-trained musician will not have the option to not hear it, as they are more sensitive to rhythm and able to handle more complex rhythms. It is in this that rhythm is universal, and through the subject becomes something higher.
