This is not about computer science but linguistics. 

It was a surprise to learn about linguistics from a compiler materials. Terminals, context free grammar, chomsky normal form, and such. From the formal logic's perspective, it was clean, neat, elegant. Feed the rules derived from a preassumed set of meta-rules (the formal logic system) into a machine, and it determines the validity of a sentence. But this is calculus. It has nothing to do with language. 

Language can not be discussed without considering meanings. We could play some sort of mind games where we are trapped in a purely formal field and play with symbolic rules -- there are two ways to go with this, the late-Wittgenstein *Sprachspiel* or what the Chomskyan linguists seemingly is doing. *Sprachspiel* shouldn't be understood naively and be reduced to something like "meaning depends on context" or "meaning is derived from usage". It is really about the subject's playing with its power of mediation, playing with symbols. The world is already symbolic, and the subject is re-symbolizing, reconstructing the rules, rebuilding the symbolic order; there is *jouissance* from such process. 

The Chomskyan materials isn't really helpful in studying language. For them, grammar comes first. We have formal rules, structures, and generation. Somehow there is an engine first, then we call the output language. What's been played here is not the symbolic rules but setting the symbolic order as metalanguage, then discover its effects, particularly grammar, listing out its constraints. Here, meaning doesn't matter, context doesn't matter, poetry doesn't exist. It is endless parsing into `/dev/null`. A more precise term for those "linguists" is perhaps "grammarists" or "applied-mathematics-onto-linguistic-effects". Though it is easy to see why this becomes popular in the Anglophone-dominated academics, which already has its entire field of philosophy dominated by mathematicians.

Wittgenstein is indeed a genius. He studied formal logic under Russell, wrote the Tractatus, then spent his late years dismantling it all. He embraced the groundlessness of language and re-explored the continuous structuralization of the symbolic and ontology, realizing it was all a game. Yet the Anglophone "philosophy" and its linguistics compartment never got the memo. They're still building cathedrals on the foundation he spent his career demolishing.

> Il n'y a pas de métalangage.